[THEME MUSIC]
>>ALAN W. GREEN: I was used to
going, "Look at me, look at me,
look at me tap dance."
And now, it was all, "Oh
no, don't look at me.
Don't express your ego."
Ego is Latin for I am.
That's all it is.
I had never had the
least bit of interest
in Shakespeare my whole life.
God, It, She, led me to it
and I realized, "Oh my God,
this is the biggest story ever.
Why would he do this?
Why would he leave
codes that I somehow
have a knack for finding?"
He's 007 for God's sake.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
>>GREEN: Ian Fleming knew this
and built James Bond on him.
He hides on the
surface of the poetry.
It's pointing you to the
Great Pyramid of Giza.
For God's sake,
what's that doing?
He's telling you history's a lot
more mysterious than you think.
To be or not to be.
What does it mean?
It's the most well known
line in all of literature
and he's really saying.
>>REGINA: One of the
more intriguing stories
of modern history is the mystery
of Shakespeare's true identity.
In today's show, we're going to
romp through some pretty juicy
characters but it was the
anagrams and cryptographs
that helped our
author on our show
today identify the little
known historical characters
as Shakespeare with a
good degree of confidence
because you can see.
You're a seer and you have help.
And that actually parallels some
of the characters of the day.
So I just want to say, as I was
reading your book, "Shakespeare
Decoded" and you have that
series here on Gaia 2,
"Shakespeare Decoded", I kept
thinking, he has this in him
already.
That's why you're able
to see things and decode,
and have things come
to you the way you do.
That you were already so
well developed and just
primed to bring this
message through again.
That's my big fat opinion.
So--
>>GREEN: All right.
>>REGINA: Welcome, welcome.
So I think this of you.
So first of all, I wanted to
set the context for your book
because you do this
beautiful work having to do
with anagrams and pictographs.
Weaving the story of the
day of Shakespeare's peers,
of the day royalty,
religion, and everything.
And so I wanted to find
out who you are first.
A little bit about
your background.
You're a creative for one.
>>GREEN: I am.
I've been a musician
my whole life.
Pianist, composer, singer.
Been involved in
the music industry
and really the heart
of the music industry
for quite a long time at first.
So I was on five record labels.
I was musical director for Davy
Jones of the Monkees pop group.
In and out of those sort of
circles doing what I thought
I wanted as a kid, right?
>>REGINA: Great.
>>GREEN: I wanted to be
the next Beatles but--
>>REGINA: You
weren't mature enough
to do what you're doing now,
but you knew how to manifest.
>>GREEN: But the
point about it is,
you get into that Hollywood
and the music business.
Actually, once I was in
it, I couldn't stand it.
I didn't want to be in it
because of all the lies, all
the fakeness of it.
So I mean, I wow my
way through there
but I learned a
tremendous amount.
>>REGINA: Well, you learned
how to manifest, and connect,
and bring things to fruition.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
I was able to do that in a
rather extraordinary way that
was just I had a memory
of an actual system
for manifesting, which served
me well until it didn't anymore.
And the turning
point for that is
if you think you're
the one doing it,
I'm thinking I
can manifest this.
I've got a record deal.
I can manifest this.
I see myself being signed
by Clive Davis of Arista.
Got it.
Boomph.
And it went over and over
and I kept thinking, oh, I
can do anything.
And then one day,
the voice came.
>>REGINA: A humbling voice.
>>GREEN: That voice.
Humbling is a good word.
Literally, we know it
if we've experienced it.
Silent, compelling,
loving, insight.
And all it said,
well, at first was,
"Alan, when you're
at a piano playing
for 10 of your
friends a new song
and they're all adoring
you and one person isn't
paying attention, you get
really upset, don't you?"
Busted.
Now I'm, "Yeah, yeah.
Pearls before swine.
That was me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: And the
voice just said--
I'm driving at the time.
And he says, "I'm playing
this song all the time
and hardly, anyone's
paying attention."
>>REGINA: Wow.
How beautiful.
>>GREEN: And I was
thrown into bliss,
into unity consciousness.
Something I'd never experienced
before and literally
thrown into it.
I could see the
sap in the trees.
I could see the stars
in the daylight sky.
I'm looking at the electrons
in the steering wheel
and I'm in utter,
utter staggering bliss.
What do you want?
Oh, you know what I want?
I want a new record deal.
Ask me.
You've never asked me.
You think you're doing it
all with this manifest.
So it was beautiful.
It changed my life completely.
And the state lasted
for four months.
I was completely in
this bliss performance.
All my friends thought I
was on acid all the time.
I've been going, give
me what you got bud.
And I'm going, "I
don't have anything.
I wish I could give it
you but I was there."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: And then it
gradually faded away.
Of course, it was grace.
It was grace that
showed me that exists.
Now, go find it.
I went and found
it in meditation,
and I've been doing
that meditation ever
since a form of
yoga for 42 years.
Where I can go into bliss.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yes.
>>GREEN: You know that
it's your innate nature.
But what I had to
learn from it was,
yeah, do it for the right reason
and do it honoring the divine
because you are-- it is in you.
But--
>>REGINA: And it is,
and it's in everyone.
But at the same time,
there are some people
that perhaps have the messages
a little louder and clearer
because they have a particular
mission or purpose to do.
And you needed to be put
into a position where
you knew there was more
to mind than your mind.
Where you needed to
be prepared for what
was going to happen
and to listen.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because you were
going to be shown a lot.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it was
time, and it's time.
The people that I interview,
I start seeing patterns
emerge in the types of stories
coming because they actually
start validating each other.
That the time has come
for these ancient,
ancient messages
which have-- they
tried to emerge in the
day of Shakespeare.
And now, they're
trying to emerge again
in the same characters, in
my opinion, keep coming back
and try it from another angle
to move the information forward
for humanity.
So now let's skip
to 19 years ago.
You've been prepped
and you're visited.
>>GREEN: Well, as
you know Regina,
what happens to a
lot of us when we
get on a so-called
spiritual path, I mean,
we're all on a spiritual path.
We just don't know it.
But when we get on one, we go,
"Oh, this is my path, right?"
You can easily, and I did,
get locked into this idea of,
"Oh no.
I must be so humble.
I should be in a
cave meditating.
And don't express your ego."
Ego is Latin for I am.
That's all it is.
Come on.
>>REGINA: That's it.
It's just you.
>>GREEN: I am.
But there's a perilous
balance, right?
I was using it before to
get all this stuff for me.
>>REGINA: Out of balance desire.
>>GREEN: Out of balance.
Sure.
And then all of a sudden,
you're thrown into,
I must-- so in other words, I
was used to going, "Look at me,
look at me, look
at me tap dance."
And now, it was all, "Oh
no, don't look at me,
don't look at me
because that's wrong."
And I had to finally come
back into a complete balance
between those two because
of course, there's
nothing wrong with the ego.
The big ego of you
were all the divine
and we're here to say
that I'm waking it
in others if possible.
>>REGINA: And that is the
classic path people go through
for the most part.
It's you go through,
oh, I'm nothing
but a drop in the
ocean of consciousness.
And yeah, we all
go through it, OK?
So now you found your way
back to your own true identity
because we're each
here for purpose.
So you have to stand in you.
Now, what happened after that?
>>GREEN: Well, at that
point, I was praying heavily
to the divine saying,
"You can take me.
I'm done.
I've done what I
wanted to do here.
And take me.
My daughter is off and running.
She's at New York
University, Tisch.
I'm fine.
You can take me.
I don't even like it here."
And I said--
>>REGINA: So you're
ready, Sayonara.
>>GREEN: But I was really
forcing God to say,
show me what's next or
get rid of me because I--
>>REGINA: You don't want
to just hang around.
>>GREEN: If I'm here for
something which I suspect I am,
got to show me what it is.
Two weeks later, a
friend invites me
to a Shakespeare show.
I had never had the least bit
of interest in Shakespeare
in my whole life.
That was a part of the
programming as well.
Oh, Shakespeare bad.
That happened earlier.
>>REGINA: But you're
English, aren't you?
>>GREEN: I am English, yes.
>>REGINA: And you didn't have
any interest in Shakespeare.
>>GREEN: I did not have any
interest and we could go there
but that was to be another show.
I was blocked from
knowing it, which
meant I didn't have to
unlearn all the rubbish.
>>REGINA: I understand.
>>GREEN: So he
introduced me to it.
Got, It, She, led me to
it and I realized, oh.
I went, "Oh my God.
This is it biggest story ever."
The guy left no paper trail.
There are no manuscripts.
No plays, no poems, not a letter
not a line in his own hand.
No one even saw him.
It's a mystery.
Oh, I'll write this
as a musical and I'm
off and running going, "Oh,
that's what I came here for."
And I'm writing it as a
musical for two years.
But then I found I was
finding real codes.
I mean, real codes.
And of course, the musical
then seemed a little trivial
compared to this
main story that, oh,
he's trying to lead
us to something
that is really important.
Why would he do this?
Why would he leave
codes that I somehow
have a knack for finding.
And there you are,
but they are deep.
They go deep.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so this character called
William Shakespeare is
essentially, we're going
to go with your story,
no other story.
And your story, part of your
story was also exemplified
and well, it was demonstrated
in the film, "Anonymous"
which was done by Roland
Emmerich and 2011.
Which is a beautiful film.
You can tell he poured
himself in because he
was as intrigued as you.
You've taken it further.
But nonetheless, it gets him.
If anyone wants to watch it,
it gives you some really rich
emotional backdrop.
>>GREEN: And it's
a well-told story.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I want us to tell
essentially that and more.
And so let's go to
what intrigued Roland
and what intrigued you.
And go back to the day itself.
The characters of
the day and let's
make the central figure
really, Queen Elizabeth I.
>>GREEN: Well, of course,
you had that reign
of who has often been thought
of as England's greatest monarch
and most powerful woman.
I mean, she really was and
she had a definite intention
to show the world
how powerful she was.
She grew up in a completely
dysfunctional family, right?
>>REGINA: Well, of course.
>>GREEN: Her dad executed
her mother when she was two.
There is that.
>>REGINA: There's that.
>>GREEN: I mean,
there were swarming
around her all these
intimations of incest, right?
Oh, that marriage
was not legitimate
because it was incestuous.
This is not legitimate
because it's incestuous.
>>REGINA: In other
words, royal stuff.
>>GREEN: Exactly.
Just your typical everyday
story at Buckingham Palace.
>>REGINA: Right.
So here, you have this
beautiful, passionate character
who was-- was Queen
Elizabeth literate herself?
She certainly seemed to
historically appreciate
words and history.
And she had a lot of depth.
>>GREEN: Oh, tremendously
intelligent and well tutored.
And I mean, she could really
talk the hind leg of a horse,
as we say in England.
Anyone around her,
she knew stuff.
But I mean, think of this.
She translated a work
when she was 11 years old,
called the mirror
of the sinful soul
that was given to her by French
Queen Marguerite of Navarre
about incest.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>GREEN: And she translated
it from French into English.
And as--
>>REGINA: At age 11?
>>GREEN: At age 11.
And part of the
principle behind it
is that if we are brothers
and sisters in Christ,
but Christ is also my
husband, and I am as reigning,
I am the mother of--
I mean, it's all
a convoluted thing
where she's able to
rationalize her incest is
just nothing really.
I mean, we're all basically
only come from the one.
How can there really be
true incestuous behavior?
Which figures later
in her life when
she's rationalizing how she
can be the Virgin Queen.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: And yet.
>>REGINA: And yet.
And we're going to get into that
and yet because that's really
the story.
That's a big part of the story
is what happens from the end
yet.
And so, here, you have
this lovely woman.
This brilliant woman,
powerful woman.
And she ultimately-- we'll get
to her backstory a little bit.
But ultimately, she marries off
to William Cecil, her advisor.
>>GREEN: Cecil is her advisor.
>>REGINA: Is her advisor.
>>GREEN: Close
confidant, but it's
Cecil's daughter who he insists
he marry to his ward of court.
>>REGINA: Yes, because she's
the Virgin Queen, right?
Yeah.
So Cecil comes in and he is
like a handler in her life.
So what's going on with
the politics of the day?
That first of all, cryptography,
anagrams, and everything
flourished.
We're not even to
the theater yet.
But why did all of this
flourish in the day?
>>GREEN: No Netflix.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, there you go.
No.
There was more to that.
Let's talk about--
>>GREEN: No Netflix, no theater.
Well, the theater.
All they had was
church and the theater.
That was their entertainment.
>>REGINA: And so let's talk
about why secrecy though?
Because there were messages
that were trying to come out.
>>GREEN: Oh, sure.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So let's talk.
>>GREEN: Well, of course,
we're in the middle
of the Reformation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: We've been
Catholic, Catholic, Catholic,
Catholic, Catholic.
Henry wants to
marry someone else.
He wants to marry Anne Boleyn.
Pope won't let him.
OK then, we're not
Catholic anymore.
We are now Protestant.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: And then he dies
and Mary's on the throne
and she's a staunch
Catholic again, right?
Ahead of Elizabeth.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: And then Edward VI is--
she dies of probably cancer.
And now, Edward VI is on and
now we're Protestants again.
So nobody knew what to
do with their beads.
They're going, do we
use it, do we do not?
>>REGINA: Well, then,
what's happening?
So then we have
the story up North.
OK.
So Scotland because King
James starts coming into it.
So what's going on
in terms of religion
between Elizabeth and James.
>>GREEN: Well, let's
just say overall,
I mean, Elizabeth had to
very reluctantly execute
James's mother, right?
Mary Queen of Scots.
>>REGINA: Mary, Queen of Scots.
Yes.
>>GREEN: All of that mishmash
is really to do with the idea
that England is now, because of
her father, is now Protestant.
Now, it's Catholic.
Now, it's Protestant again.
Elizabeth is a
Protestant queen again
but she's got to try
and balance and placate
the Catholics who are at
least 50% of the country.
And there's death threats
on her all the time.
And so sending codes
to protect or even
to try to assassinate her.
Codes were everywhere.
This was not a vague thing.
>>REGINA: They were a necessary
part of communication.
>>GREEN: Necessary part
because it was a very, very
tight system of control.
The Elizabethan era, right?
It was just printing was
just coming into its own.
They had to have
control of finding out
who's on their side, who's not.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: She was
constantly under threat.
So the idea of codes
is not at all--
everybody was doing it.
And you could not say a
word against the monarchy.
People would get
obviously hung, drawn,
and quartered for saying--
suggesting anything
about who she should marry.
They all wanted her to marry and
she was absolutely insistent.
And growing up in that
completely dysfunctional
family, she said
famously, "There
will be one master
in this house on me."
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: She wasn't
going to get married
but of course she's a woman
with natural, healthy, sexual,
and amorous instincts.
And she happens to
fall in love with
this dashing young
beautiful guy who
comes to court 21 years
old, Edward de Vere.
He's a great poet.
He's a flashy dancer.
We know Elizabeth liked dancing.
He's also a great athlete.
>>REGINA: And how old
was she at the time?
>>GREEN: She was 17
years older than him.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this comes up later?
So she was a little
older, beautiful,
and she meets this essentially
polymath, this amazing man.
And he can match her intellect.
And so for her, this
is something just
to find a person who is
as educated, as clever, as
beautiful a mind as she.
And so he's a little younger.
He's 21, right?
You said 21 at the time?
>>GREEN: Well,
he'd have been 20.
Well, here's the point.
His father was got
rid of, shall we say.
So that he became the
17th Earl of Oxford.
His father was the
16th Earl of Oxford.
Owned vast swaths of land.
Let's get rid of him.
Let's get this
guy close to court
under the Ward of William Cecil.
So that Cecil is now training
him and educating him
in the best libraries, better
than anything in Europe.
Just the place you'd need in
order to become a great writer.
And I mean, he's literally
got the world at his feet
but he's but he's trapped in
that household until he's 21.
And William Cecil wants him
to marry his daughter, Anne.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: Because that will
make him connected to--
the backstory to
all of this is--
>>REGINA: That's a tricky part.
So let's go to
Elizabeth at age 14.
She's written this document
you spoke about, about divinity
and we're all brothers,
we're all sisters.
And it puts a different
lens around incest.
Now she's 14 years old,
which is actually a pretty--
I remember me at 14,
pretty passionate age.
>>GREEN: Sure.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about what
was going on then in her life.
>>GREEN: Well, she was placed.
Now, Henry VIII has died.
So the widow of Henry VIII
marries Thomas Seymour,
a dashing Lord Admiral but
he's a bit of a scoundrel.
And Elizabeth has been
placed in their household.
And the housekeepers
make a note of
and it's very, very specific
in their expressions.
Inappropriate bedroom
play with Thomas Seymour
and the young princess.
And it goes on for a long time.
And eventually, he's
brought up on charges
of treason, 33 charges
of treason including
trying to impregnate
Elizabeth in order
to then convince her to marry
him so that he can be King.
Pretty convoluted path to power
but that's what he thought.
And he got busted and
he got executed for it.
But there is a rumor that
he did impregnate her.
Now, on the surface of
it historically, it's
only a rumor.
You can find
documents, books that
say, "Yeah, that happened."
I never liked to talk
about it conclusively
until I found codes that
were just too undeniable.
Code after code
after code after code
going, "Yes, that's
what happened."
He's telling us he
was the first child
of Elizabeth raped
at 14 years old.
Put into what they would
call a changeling situation.
He's a changeling child put
into the home of the 16th Earl
of Oxford, his father.
>>REGINA: 16th Earl of Oxford.
Yes.
>>GREEN: So now, they
get rid of the 16th Earl.
He literally died a month after
making out his will very, very
prominently to William Cecil.
And he's only died,
just drop dead.
>>REGINA: He just
happened to drop dead.
Now, we have this
17th Earl of Oxford.
>>GREEN: The 17th is now brought
into town with 120 horsemen
and dressed in Black.
The town must have
thought, "Who is this
coming into town protected?
Big procession.
Who is he?"
He's just 17th Earl of Oxford.
He's a kid, 12 years old but he
ends up at Cecil's and now he's
there.
Now, Cecil can bleed all the
grounds from the 16th Earl.
They can bring all that
into their treasury.
But he's in place and
he's close to the queen.
And one assumes, if one finds
critical evidence, which
I claim I have in
terms of the codes.
Because it's not just one
code where you can say,
"Oh well, that's your opinion."
>>REGINA: Coincidence.
Yeah.
>>GREEN: Five, six, seven of
them all saying, "Yes, that's
what happened."
>>REGINA: So we're now talking
about the 17th Earl of Oxford.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: None other
than Edward de Vere.
>>GREEN: Edward de Vere.
>>REGINA: This is where
it gets complicated.
It almost makes me,
I don't know why,
a little teary for some reason.
The whole thing
is so convoluted.
So she now is 37 and meets a
21-year-old Edward de Vere.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Did she know what
happened to the changeling
where he went, who raised him?
Did she know his identity?
We don't know.
>>GREEN: We don't know.
It would be remiss.
>>REGINA: We don't know.
>>GREEN: I don't know.
So--
>>GREEN: I cannot say
anything I can't prove.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So we don't know if she
knew that Edward de Vere.
>>GREEN: But she certainly--
>>REGINA: Appears
to have been her son
but she did have a lot
of resonance with him
when they met.
>>GREEN: They hit it off.
And--
>>REGINA: They hit it off.
>>GREEN: And all the Spanish
ambassadors there at court
were writing back to Spain.
Oh, the queen, de Vere having--
all of that's been expunged from
the English records, of course.
She's the Virgin Queen.
But it's in other records
that say no they were having
an affair, quite definitely.
Plus then we know
that in 1572 and '73,
they had three separate private
interviews with the Archbishop
of Canterbury.
For what reason?
I mean, the only
conceivable reason
would be if a
child is on the way
because the only person
allowed to marry the monarch
is the Archbishop of Canterbury.
They had these
meetings in private,
their reference but
no one else was there.
And one can assume that was in
order to officially marry them
so that when the child came,
the child was legitimate
and she could name that child
some future point as being
successor and the Tudor
lineage could continue.
>>REGINA: William Cecil
argued heavily against this
when she declared that she was
in love with de Vere, right?
Didn't he try--
>>GREEN: That's a
little literary license
on behalf of the
movie, "Anonymous."
>>REGINA: It is.
That's not accurate.
>>GREEN: We don't know for sure.
>>REGINA: We don't
know if he tried
to discourage her from it.
But something
happened that seemed
to have put distance
between them.
Well, there was some
distance because apparently,
from this affair,
she was impregnated.
Apparently, I mean,
that's what the story is,
the story we're talking about.
And she apparently
took a little time off.
Went away for a while until
the child came into the world.
>>GREEN: They would do these
things called progress.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>GREEN: Go on progress.
>>REGINA: Go on progress.
>>GREEN: Very large hoop skirts.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
You couldn't tell.
>>GREEN: And waved.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: Right?
And then they go off
somewhere and have--
I mean--
>>REGINA: Is it a matter
of historic record
that she went on progress
or is this speculation?
>>GREEN: Absolutely.
No--
>>REGINA: She did?
>>GREEN: Historical record
that matches with the times
we think she had a child.
Yes.
But again, being careful, I
can't say I can prove that.
>>REGINA: None of
this is in stone.
These are at this point
beyond speculation, only
in that certain of
your codes do seem
to match up with certain
historical evidence.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
That's the point.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: And when the codes are
literally redundant here, here,
here, here, here.
Then you have a map
for saying, well,
whoever wrote these codes is
trying to tell us something
and then making sure we get the
message very loud and clear.
And the codes are not
just random things.
If you watch the show--
>>REGINA: You'll see
exactly very, very specific.
So now, the queen has
gone on progression
but somehow, it seems
the renderings of it
are that she and de
Vere are pushed apart.
They did not marry.
>>GREEN: No, they didn't.
And this is the tragic story.
>>REGINA: They seemed to love
each other, or she loved him.
>>GREEN: I am absolutely
convinced that this
was a deep love affair.
She was trapped by her job.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: She's got
to be-- first of all,
she has stated that she
will never marry because she
doesn't want to marry men.
Oh, now, we'll
take it from here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Don't blame her on that one.
>>GREEN: You go to the kitchen.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: Right.
So she doesn't want that.
>>REGINA: She wanted
to express herself.
>>GREEN: Right.
But besides that, there's--
well, de Vere makes
a point of writing
a beautiful public
letter to her.
He has his page announce it
during the tilts at the yard.
Remember, he was 21
years old when he first
comes into her life,
or at least when
he's first jousting
and sword fencing.
And she's looking at him going,
"Well, he's a darn good dancer.
He's a very nice poet."
>>REGINA: He's brilliant.
>>GREEN: Pretty
brilliant writer.
So obviously, he was
hated, of course.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>GREEN: Right.
That's clear.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: Right.
And he wins everything.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: So even worse, right?
So 10 years later in 1581,
he's back to defend his title
as it were.
This is the one part that
Roland did not get in the movie
and I wish he had because
it's the most beautiful scene
imaginable.
>>REGINA: Tell us.
I want to hear it.
>>GREEN: Well, this is
a historical record.
The tilts 620 odd yards
long, all the knights
are wanting to beat him, right?
This time because
they don't like him.
There's the Green Knight,
the Black Knight, Red Knight,
Yellow Knight.
>>REGINA: He shows up everyone.
>>GREEN: Right.
They're all at one end
but he's the champion
so he has the privilege of
coming from the other end.
Overnight, he has his people
decorate a large bay tree
at this end of the
court of the tiltyard.
Covered in gold,
not painted gold.
Covered in gold leaf.
He's very rich, remember.
And they cover the
trunk and the branches
and the leaves in gold leaf.
And he comes out at the sunrise
out of this gold colored tent
on a gold caparisoned horse.
Holding a golden lance, dressed
in gold armor with a gold--
everything gold.
He's saying--
>>REGINA: And this
is historical record?
>>GREEN: Oh, this is
historical record.
And he's saying--
what is he saying?
He's saying he's Muhammad Ali.
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
>>GREEN: He's saying,
"I am the greatest."
>>REGINA: I am, yes.
>>GREEN: You want a piece of me?
I mean, you don't do that
if you're a little nervous
about how it's going to go.
>>REGINA: He's
confident, it seems.
>>GREEN: Comes out
and goes, "Yeah."
And then they have
12 bouts and he wins
every single one for his queen.
He has his page come out and
read a document to something
he wrote for her called the
Knight of the tree of the sun.
And he says, "This tree,
this golden shining tree
that I'm emerging from is
emblematic of our family tree."
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>GREEN: It's heavy.
>>GREEN: And he's saying,
he is the root of the tree
and she is the vestal virgin
at the top of the tree.
He's telling the world that
he's her child and her love.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: Either romantic
or pure noble love
of a courtier poet
for his monarch.
It's utterly beautiful.
It's a brilliant
piece of theater.
It's Shakespeare in
the Park before there
was a Shakespeare--
>>REGINA: I'm surprised
he left that out.
That's amazing.
>>GREEN: Oh, Roland
should have had that in.
>>REGINA: Yeah, he should have.
Yeah.
>>GREEN: Brilliant, brilliant.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GREEN: I mean, the idea
that I am the greatest.
So he comes out and says that.
But the bottom line is he's
saying to the world and to her,
"I understand that you have
to be the vestal virgin."
He actually uses the
expression vestal virgin.
You have to be the Virgin Queen.
Why?
Because you are being
courted by all these--
you're the most eligible woman
in the world, on the planet.
And France wants to marry her,
and Rome wants to marry her,
and blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
They all come over.
Well, she plays it
like, "Oh yes, there's
no Instagram, right?"
It's like, "Oh, paint me
a portrait of yourself
and I'll see if I fancy you."
And like a year and
a half later, they
send over the ships
and a portrait.
No, I don't think so.
She's using her
virginity as bait
because so long as
she's available,
she might marry one of them
and they can avoid war.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
>>GREEN: And just
install a king.
>>REGINA: Makes perfect sense.
Sure.
>>GREEN: So long as she does,
and she's doing this all along.
All the while, John de
Vere behind the scenes
is saying, "Keep this going.
Keep it going.
We've got to build up our
armaments because the Spanish
Armada is going
to come eventually
when you're no longer of
childbearing age, by the way."
>>REGINA: So position well now.
>>GREEN: This is only
going to last for a while.
And that's what she's doing.
But de Vere is saying
in this message,
"I understand you need to be
a virgin queen for them and I
understand therefore that our
love cannot be acknowledged
and our child cannot
be acknowledged.
But I love you."
>>REGINA: Did he know that
she was mom at the time?
>>GREEN: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: He knew.
OK.
So it appears they may
have both been in the know.
OK.
>>GREEN: There are
hints in the sun.
It's all--
>>REGINA: There are hints.
Yes.
So now, we get to Shakespeare.
Shakespeare who
certainly in the film
was portrayed as an absolute
buffoon who can't even write.
So he's a fellow in Stratford.
Why is de Vere trying to
get these plays that we all
know from our school days?
Why is he trying
to get these out
through this person
that ultimately
was named William Shakespeare?
This nom de plume.
Why was he trying to
get this information out
to the public at all?
>>GREEN: There is a distinction.
The man born in Stratford
was baptized Shackspere.
>>REGINA: Shacks.
OK.
>>GREEN: It's a
minor distinction
but it is important
because the name was common
but it was never
ever spelt with an E.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GREEN: And it was
never ever hyphenated.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: Which a lot
of Shakespeare stuff
was hyphenated, Shake-spear
As in basically,
Minerva coming out of
Zeus's head shaking a spear.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: The goddess
of art and all that.
So it's a metaphor.
He happens to have a
convenient name but who knows?
Maybe even that was fixed.
I wouldn't be surprised
at this point.
But definitely, his
baptism was fixed.
Can I just give you
a few numbers that
will help us to understand it?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: Angels in 1584,
channel a document,
a sacred document
a doctor John Dee.
He liked to do seances.
He would like to talk to angels.
>>REGINA: John Dee was the
Queen's personal astrologer
but he was much more.
He talked to angels.
He was a mathematician.
He was a mystic, great
mystic of the day.
>>GREEN: Thank you for
catching up on that
because we hadn't mentioned him.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we have to get him in there
because it's key to your work.
>>GREEN: So John Dee
is literally that
and he's the Queen's astrologer.
And he's one of her
leading advisors as far
as psychic phenomenon.
You can say he's
007 for God's sake.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: Right.
He's a spy in Europe and
that's his code number.
Ian Fleming knew this
and built James Bond
>>REGINA: 007 on it.
Yes.
>>GREEN: So he's a
magnificent character
once you get to understand him.
The kids are going to love this.
After Dumbledore,
he's the next one.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>GREEN: Really?
I mean, John Dee
is a real wizard.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: But he's having
a seance with angels.
And the Angels dictate
this message to him
and it is brought through
as a sacred document.
And it has 624 squares
in it and 624 characters.
And it's delivered
on June 24, 624.
20 years later to the
day Edward de Vere,
one of the
shakespeares, and I say
one of because Bacon's
part of it as well.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: One of-- he
is Edward de Vere.
He supposedly dies
on June 24, 624.
20 years prior,
the man we're told
was Shakespeare,
Shackspere of Stratford,
he's supposedly baptized
on April 26, 426.
The exact opposite of 624.
The Shakespeare
sonnets dedication
is six lines, two
lines, and four lines.
And when you count the six
words, second four, six,
through to the end,
it reveals a cipher.
It says these
sonnets all by evere.
Evere, a contraction of
the name Edward de Vere.
Oh, Edward de Vere
is six letters,
two letters, four letters.
He's also the Earl of Oxford
which is four, two, six, right?
In the church where supposedly
the fake Shakespeare is buried,
there's a monument that has
freemasonic symbols on it
and Hebrew codes.
And it's in a pattern of
six, two, four, or four, two,
six this way.
>>REGINA: And that's
where really, you
were able to put
the pieces together.
When they watch
your show, they're
going to see how carefully
you put them all together.
So the question is,
who was Dee to de Vere?
>>GREEN: Cryptographer.
>>REGINA: He was-- so
when de Vere was writing,
and he was writing in an
encrypted fashion, right?
>>GREEN: Well, they
would have to--
they would have had to have
combined on certain aspects
because the cryptography--
the cryptography
involves like your page.
You've got a page of
text on it, right?
You've got to be able to put it
into a grid, which means just
put all the letters, one
after the other like this.
And they reveal
vertically messages.
That's what in
its simplest form.
It's a bit deeper than
that but its simplest form.
>>REGINA: So they would
have collaborated?
>>GREEN: They would
have collaborated
on integral things that involved
wording in a sonnet or wording
in some of the plays.
So there's no doubt that they
collaborated in that sense.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: But he is not
known as a poet at all.
He wrote some
poetry that was bad.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: But he was the
most brilliant mathematician
of the time, and
cryptographer of the time.
And he passed the mantle on to--
he was the leading--
he was the grandmaster
of the Rosicrucians.
And he passed that mantle
on to Francis Bacon, who
later is pretty much known
by the Rosicrucian fraternity
and the Freemasons as being
their guy of the time.
>>REGINA: Well, the Hermetics
also acknowledged Bacon
as one of the shakespeares.
>>GREEN: Of course they do.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So we can assume that
that story is not--
this doesn't debunk that story.
>>GREEN: No.
>>REGINA: It brings in another
author in a very intimate way.
And so why again,
what I wonder is
because it was so
dangerous in the day,
why would this information
need to-- why did de Vere even
want his place to be
passed through Shakespeare
and presented before the public?
What was the advantage?
It wasn't just
sheerly entertainment.
It was telling stories that had
some meaning personally to he
and Elizabeth and depth.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
First of all, he
couldn't help writing.
He's a great artist, right?
He's going to write.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
He couldn't stop himself.
>>GREEN: And like
all great art, it
will meet you on whatever level
you can receive it at, right?
So I might see this, a
Titian painting and go,
that's beautiful but I might
not know the symbology in it
or the geometry in it.
It's the same with everybody
that does great art.
So he's writing it
on multiple levels.
So it's just fine.
If you want entertainment
and swashbuckling, and lots
and lots of writers have
written all this up.
We know Shakespeare
deep on that level.
He's the greatest writer ever,
whether you like him or not,
doesn't matter.
It's damn good stuff.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: Right.
>>REGINA: It's good stuff.
>>GREEN: Get into it.
>>REGINA: Hey, you have
to read it in junior high.
So it has to have some storyline
plot, emotions, something
naughty.
>>GREEN: Yeah.
And it really contains all the
beauty, and all the horror,
and everything imaginable
that happens on Earth.
But at the same time,
there's this deepest,
deepest spiritual message
that is coming through,
which only comes through.
Well, it doesn't only.
You can read the spiritual
message in the works.
But in the codes, he
is literally saying,
"I am that I am."
The name of God that is
forbidden by King James
writes a law in
1606, law of abuses.
Can't say the name of God.
OK.
Why?
They can't do it.
In sonnet 121, he just
says, "No, I am and I am."
And I mean, he should have
been hung drawn and quartered
several times for that.
But he just says it.
And as I show in
the series, it's
everywhere in the beginning
and end of all his works
and in the middle.
He's obviously got a
very, very clear notion
of wanting to give a
straightforward message.
And the message is that name
of God, the I am, he's saying,
"It's you."
"I am an enlightened
being," he's saying.
I mean, he has to be.
He's up there, right?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: So is Dee.
>>REGINA: Yes, indeed.
>>GREEN: So is Bacon.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: They're all in whatever
level that is, whatever.
Yes, Elizabeth.
They're all here on this
other level to deliver.
It's a scripture.
I can only refer to
it as a scripture.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: But different from
any other scripture where
they tell you to believe
by faith, Kingdom of God
is within you as
all scriptures say.
And all of them, that's fine.
It's wonderful.
But he's now in a new age,
and he adds mathematics to it.
He hides on the
surface of the poetry
like on the cover of the sun.
It's pointing into the
Great Pyramid of Giza,
for God's sake.
What's that doing?
He's telling you history
is a lot more mysterious
than you think.
There's deep
knowledge hidden here
and we were helped
by greater beings
to build these monuments.
He's saying that.
But the overall thing
that I love most of all
is he comes to the end and he's
saying, this much misunderstood
"to be or not to be."
What does it mean?
It's the most well known
line in all of literature.
And he's really saying, you can
be or not be who you truly are.
We can keep on
wearing this mask.
I love drama.
All the world's a stage, and
all the men and women, right?
I love it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: Don't get me wrong.
You can be that.
We can keep on
wearing these masks
and play every role
we want to forever.
That's creation.
Or you can take the mask off and
be who we truly are, the I am.
And thus, his ultimate message.
And it's very compelling.
>>REGINA: It's very compelling.
And I just-- I can't help
but look at it cyclically.
Where there are
periods of history
where the doors are open, so to
speak for information to begin
flowing forward.
And then I mean, going as far
back to Lemuria, Atlantis,
Egypt, ancient Egypt, forward
Greece, Rome, now here.
And so I can't help but think
about the characters whose
destiny has always been to
reinforce or help humanity
remember these critical messages
at the time the door is open
and they reincarnate.
That's what I was--
I don't mean to
say anything to you
and I'm not supposing
anything or anyone.
But when people come through
with such unique talents
and skills, with such
a unique message,
I can't help but think,
they're here again
and they keep coming
at the right time.
Do you feel that what you've
done is here at the right time?
>>GREEN: Yes, definitely.
There is a timing
to it that is clear.
You see it everywhere, right?
All the openings of--
>>REGINA: And so you're part of
the message is, I am that I am.
Right?
To be or not to be.
>>GREEN: It's
accepting it, you see.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: What I came to--
what I started with earlier.
I'd done this whole almost
another incarnation,
it feels to me, like
these five record
labels and going look at me.
>>REGINA: Just getting--
>>GREEN: I'm going--
>>REGINA: Playing with power--
>>GREEN: Why am I doing
silly pub songs, right?
And then I went to, oh, must be.
Don't even express anything.
You're just less than a
speck on this table, right?
And I swear, it took me a long
time to get comfortable with it
because I had still this
block of, you must--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes, yes.
Be humble.
>>GREEN: I finally did recognize
that of course, we all have
our journey and our mission.
It's a big word, our own
purpose in coming here.
And I know it was my purpose.
I understood.
I was shown it various ways.
But I had to get
over this idea, "I
don't want to become
this razzle dazzle."
But why did I learn
how to razzle dazzle?
You see?
Why was I-- why was I
given that opportunity?
>>REGINA: I think to have
the strength of character
for when the time came to
deliver the message you really
came here to do.
>>GREEN: And we are all there.
>>REGINA: We are.
>>GREEN: It's the
same for all of us.
And being able to say it
and own it gives, I believe,
other people permission
to recognize and go,
"Yeah, he's talking
about-- yeah,
I have that feeling sometimes
but I can't talk about it
in case what will
the friends say
and my neighbors and my family."
>>REGINA: Well, sure.
>>GREEN: It's natural.
That is more real
than our everyday life
here that we're going.
How about them Lakers?
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yeah, how about them Lakers?
So one final question then.
Why do you think that message,
I am that I am or to be or not
to be, why do you think it
was so important that message
couldn't be said
expressly in the day?
Why did it have to be buried?
>>GREEN: You couldn't.
Church.
We'll take care of that.
No, you can't even have
the mass in English.
And keep it in Latin so you
don't really understand it.
We're in charge.
Keep donating to us.
>>REGINA: It's kind of
a rhetorical question
but exactly.
>>GREEN: You can't
talk to angels.
No, no, no.
That's our provenance, right?
Whilst we're doing unspeakable
things in the name of religion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: So we're at--
we're about to explode out
of that old, I'm not
criticizing anyone's faith
who has a sincere deep belief
in their religion, right?
But all of the various
religions, really
some of the great
masters of our time
have all come to
tell us it's all one.
>>REGINA: It's all one.
>>GREEN: It's all the same.
>>REGINA: We're
just trying to let
go of the dogmas of control.
>>GREEN: So why at that time?
It was the-- it was
a that time because
of tremendous oppression.
Hey, burning people
at the stake.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: Of course, we have to--
>>REGINA: So the
message is, I am
that I am, or a choice to
be you truly, the true you
or not to be.
To wear the mask.
>>GREEN: Or to wear the
mask and be good at it.
It's not even judging
the first one.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GREEN: Because he's saying.
An interesting
thing about this I
only realized a few days ago, he
says, "All the world's a stage,
and all the men and
women merely players.
They have our exits
and our entrances."
And I thought, why did?
Did he get that the
wrong way around?
It should be we have our
entrances and exits on stage.
Oh, they came in, they went out.
He says, "Exits and entrances."
He never did
anything by mistake.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GREEN: Exiting to
get on to the stage.
Oh, we have our exits
from the divine to come.
And now we have our
exits to go back home.
Pretty well, our
entrance is back home.
Pretty brilliant.
>>REGINA: Absolutely brilliant.
And you're such a
wonderful storyteller.
And I mean, just natural
Bard, but also it's
your abilities that I feel
you have brought through.
So I want to say thank you
for coming back metaphorically
and figuratively both.
Thank you for coming back
and laying this out for us
because as we said
in the beginning,
truth actually does matter.
This is-- we're at a
time where yes, it does
matter who wrote these things.
It does matter that
we're not having things
passed off and of something one
dimensional and entertaining
when actually
there's beauty in it
that we need to be
reminded of now.
>>GREEN: Because then we
can understand it even more.
When you know the life of the
person who did the writing,
it all comes to technicolor
in Wizard of Oz.
It's like moment of just, oh,
because we don't know anything
about Shakespeare.
And they teach in school,
don't bother about that.
We have the works.
It doesn't matter.
When you actually tie
the life to the works,
you realize, oh,
that he's right.
All writers write about their
own personal experience, right?
And it comes to
life and then you
can go, "Oh, I have this much
more comprehensive view."
"Oh, and that's
referring to that."
It becomes immensely
more interesting.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, absolutely.
Let me ask you.
Was it de Vere that
wrote "Romeo and Juliet?"
Is that the belief rather
than Bacon or someone else?
>>GREEN: I don't know.
Again, I can't say
exactly who wrote what.
Look, if I were a betting
person, I'd say it's de Vere.
But when I get to the astral
and find out for sure, I'll--
>>REGINA: Let us know.
>>GREEN: Or if you get
there first, let me know.
Honestly, I don't care.
>>REGINA: Yeah, just wondering.
It was just out of curiosity.
>>GREEN: I don't care.
I think it's de Vere.
I think Bacon was more towards
the cryptographic stuff.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GREEN: But that's
also borne out
by the codes that repeat
his name over and over.
But really, honestly,
I say I say, now,
look, I'm a non-Freudian and
whatever you want to call it.
I don't care.
I just want the truth
because the world deserves
the truth and these people,
whoever they were collectively,
they all put-- they put a lot
of effort into telling us this.
And getting us a new kind of
scripture that is interesting,
mathematics, it's provable.
Math is provable, poetry isn't.
You can't prove
anything with poetry.
As beautiful as it
is, you can't prove.
Can you prove that's beautiful?
>>REGINA: No, I agree with you.
>>GREEN: Can you prove love?
No, you can't.
That's mystic.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GREEN: The other
side, it's a balance
of left and right brain.
It has to be.
It's alchemy, the
pure balance of both.
And that's what he's telling us.
And that's why he hid
the math in it as well.
>>REGINA: Alan,
what an absolutely,
just not just scintillating
story but useful story
for our own development.
And again, I say thank you.
Thank you for the
series you've done.
And thank you for
coming on with me
so I could just get wrapped
into the story with you myself.
OK.
You can watch the
details of the code Alan
has discovered on
his series with Gaia
called Shakespeare Decoded.
You've already heard a little
bit of what's going on there.
It's very meaty and
very intriguing.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.